test_pipeline/data_pipeline_end_to_end.md, before:

# End-to-end run with the data pipeline

I've written some shell scripts to help me with this - they need some work. The run may not be reproducible as lots of changes are still in progress. The end-to-end run is a x stage process:

Currently you need to install an unreleased version of `data_pipeline_api` from GitHub for this to work:

```
conda remove data_pipeline_api
pip install git+https://github.com/ScottishCovidResponse/data_pipeline_api@a2a537694653bdff0a74028b5c78715abbb7bf69
```

1. Upload data - I used `scripts/pipeline_upload.sh` to upload the data in `sample_input_files` to the current FTP server and register it with the SCRC data registry.
2. Download data - I used `scripts/pipeline_download.sh` with `test_pipeline/test_config.yaml` to download the same data back into `test_pipeline/test_download/`.
3. Run the model `python -m simple_network_sim.sampleUseOfModel -c test_pipeline/test_config.yaml` and visualise the results: `python -m simple_network_sim.network_of_populations.visualisation test_pipeline/access-*.yaml`. Check they are similar to a local run `python -m simple_network_sim.sampleUseOfModel`.
4. Upload the results `scripts/pipeline_upload_output.sh`

I need to add this to the config block in access*yaml:

```
model_version: unversioned
model_name: simple_network_sim
```

Commit message:

notes on hacks to access*yaml

test_pipeline/data_pipeline_end_to_end.md, after:

# End-to-end run with the data pipeline

I've written some shell scripts to help me with this - they need some work. The run may not be reproducible as lots of changes are still in progress. The end-to-end run is a x stage process:

Currently you need to install an unreleased version of `data_pipeline_api` from GitHub for this to work:

```
conda remove data_pipeline_api
pip install git+https://github.com/ScottishCovidResponse/data_pipeline_api@a2a537694653bdff0a74028b5c78715abbb7bf69
```

1. Upload data - I used `scripts/pipeline_upload.sh` to upload the data in `sample_input_files` to the current FTP server and register it with the SCRC data registry.
2. Download data - I used `scripts/pipeline_download.sh` with `test_pipeline/test_config.yaml` to download the same data back into `test_pipeline/test_download/`.
3. Run the model `python -m simple_network_sim.sampleUseOfModel -c test_pipeline/test_config.yaml` and visualise the results: `python -m simple_network_sim.network_of_populations.visualisation test_pipeline/access-*.yaml`. Check they are similar to a local run `python -m simple_network_sim.sampleUseOfModel`.
4. Upload the results `scripts/pipeline_upload_output.sh`

I need to add this to the config block in access*yaml:

```
model_version: 0.0.1
model_name: simple_network_sim
```

and 

```
    namespace: simple_network_sim_test
```

to the `access_metadata:` in the `write` block.
